---
title: "Course Overview and Thoughts!"
date: 2023-11-15T14:34:30-04:00
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - Euler Problems
  - Class Work
  - Thought Piece
---

  While we have gone over many things in Mathematical Cyberinfrastructure, some of the things that have stood out to me are Euler Problems. Euler problems are not something I have ever encountered before, and I have had a lot of fun getting to work with these problems. 
  
  
  Python is typically what I solve these problems in, and Python is not an environment I have worked in a lot, as it is not offered by our school as a core course, so these problems have been a good challenge to me, both mathematically and in a new coding environment. Euler Problems, to me, are the essence of all the things this course strives to combine, as these problems are intended to be solved by computer programs while also forcing you to use mathematical insight and prowess. 
  
  
  To work with these problems, I found that you really must take your time with them and make sure to thoroughly read through each problem and think about it in depth. When I was stuck on a problem and unsure what to do, I would brute force my way through the problem before taking a step back and thinking about the problem some more and seeing what changes I could make to make my program more efficient. Using what knowledge of a subject you have and using the knowledge you do not have is the fun in these problems as there are multiple different ways that you can solve the problems. Researching and double-checking myself as I worked meant that I was refreshing myself on old mathematical formulas and getting to learn new ones in the process. I also was able to learn some techniques that I would not have learned as quickly in Python had I not done these problems. 
  
  
  These problems are complex and tough, honestly, and I have only done a small amount of them, but each one I have done requires my complete focus and attention. It made me a stronger programmer and made me feel more confident in my problem-solving abilities.

  A final addition, if you read this far, Dr. Clontz.
  Thank you for this semester, you have taught me so much about things that apply to the industry that I feel like I have not gotten in some of my classes yet. I hope you continue to teach this course because it is unique and honestly made me feel less afraid of going out into the workforce. It also inspired me to go through with my ideas for projects and that is honestly something that I have struggled with for quite some time. You also taught me GitHub, Python, Juptyer Notebook, SageMath, etc... Impressive for a one credit hour course on a Friday afternoon, haha. 
  I look forward to (hopefully) seeing you around!
  Thank you, again.